maybe I'm wrong maybe I'm wrong I feel
that in Canada it would be easier for me
to organize a vegan foundation
cooperating with conservatives who go
hunting but who sincerely care about
preserving forest epithet then it would
be for me to cooperate with left wingers
socialists communists for whom veganism
is just one more check mark on a nearly
endless list of so-called social justice
issues maybe I'm wrong maybe I am wrong
I got a letter the other day I got an
email from a 60 year old vegan in
Australia I'm not going to read the
letter out now but one of his main
points in being a vegan 60 years old he
tried to get involved with an animal
rights group but the animal rights group
was not vegan so they had people eating
cheese and meat and they refused to use
the word vegan they obviously regarded
veganism as negative and extreme when he
raised vegan issues about
slaughterhouses they gave him this
lecture about how you should believe in
humane slaughter and believe in people's
freedom of personal choice the usual
anti vegan horseshit and you know so no
matter how you define your group
politically you're going to alienate
some people are going to exclude some
people and this animal rights group in
Australia alienated him it excluded him
and if you have a vegan foundation
foundation that is first and foremost
vegan a foundation where all the members
have to be vegan for then come in the
door then you alienate and exclude all
kinds of other people and you know again
maybe I'm wrong but I mean when I was in
canada it was much easier for me to be
understood ethically by people who were
Crean a jib way who really engaged in
hunting who hunts you know moose and
beaver but who regarded factory farming
as evil eye I had no problem talking to
those guys
egan ism and they're they're not vegan
you know and I've never had a problem
relating to you in communicating with
down-to-earth conservative people that's
not all conservative people I understand
who you know again part of conservatism
tends to be conservation who care about
conservation whether it's a forest or
wetlands or lakes or rivers who may not
see ecology in the way I do who may not
see their personal responsibility for
their choices as a consumer in the way
that I do but who still fundamentally
look at a map and share some of my
concerns you know one of the funny
breaking points in the deforestation of
Canada which is much much worse than
anyone wants to admit it is by the way I
remember so I mean these problems only
come to the government's attention when
somebody lobbies for them there was a a
lobby a political group that got
organized of small aircraft pilots so
these are what we call in Canada bush
planes and these small aircraft pilots
one of the main ways they make money of
course they deliver packages they do all
kinds of things but one of the ways they
make money is by taking tourists and
wealthy Canadian nature lovers taking
them on small flights um normally
without landing they could they could
fly out land go fishing and fly back
some wealthy people pay for that kind of
thing in in Canada but a lot of the time
people want to pay money for the small
aircraft to just take them and show them
the beauty the alleged beauty of the
Canadian forest and looking at the map
looking at the progress of deforestation
and Canada these guys were having a
harder and harder time doing this
because the brutal reality of forestry
practices in Canada when you got past
all the all the [ __ ] all the
propaganda you know Canada really didn't
have any forest left to show off and
these guys were in the tiny minority of
people
for in a position to know that position
to see that and you know i just
mentioned if you work on those issues
from a political science perspective
there is so much intentionally vague and
misleading language in government
documents however we had city documents
the city of toronto that refer to green
spaces and open spaces open space
includes parking lots they were making
claims about how environmentally
friendly a city Toronto was on the basis
of green space and so-called opens faith
and as well check check the appendix
check the appendix and check the
footnotes what is the definition of open
space what is the definition of green
green space is not a forest right and as
we say you probably all know this slogan
a tree farm is not a for us um you know
I think the good thing about life is and
good thing about politics everybody gets
a second chance everybody gets a third
chance everybody gets a fifth chance you
get to be wrong the stakes are not life
and death here they're not that bad this
guy's 60 years old he had this negative
experience with one foundation he quit
he's going to go on and try to have a
positive experience at some other
foundation he mentions I think he's
there's another group called act a CT
capital a CT which is a different vegan
society in Canberra Australia it sounds
like he's had a relatively positive
experience to them he's not completely
satisfied he's looking for other ways
you can make a positive difference in
terms of activism but still you know
it's not all bad the the good news is
you get to try again and again you get
to try to start your own foundation to
replace the foundations that are bad and
it's never an either/or right if I were
back in Canada I could have one
foundation that's really based on
positive cooperation with and outreach
to hunters and meat eaters all the
people who care about forest habitat and
river water most of those people in
Canada are conservative most of the
purchase meat-eaters they're hunters
there there are a lot of them are rural
Canadians too but in terms of the
wealthy donors for a foundation like
that you know you're not they're not the
social justice warriors they're not the
people on the far left or in the streets
testing because they want a law in
Toronto that will force the government
to use a list of 46 different gender
neutral pronouns for four you know
transgendered people who neither want to
identify as as male nor female which by
the way is a minority of transgender
people many many transgender people want
to identify as either male or female um
you know the people who are in the
social justice struggle of the day on
the far left are not the same people who
are going to be involved in those
ecological issues in Canada but at the
same time man there are all these fights
they're all these debates that I don't
want to have with the in veganism where
I can totally recognize the value in
reaching out to others but at some point
you have to come home you have to have
someplace you feel as home you have
those some people who feel you or you
who you feel are your colleagues and
contemporaries and not your enemies I
don't want to within my own organization
have to sit down and deal with the
arguments that humane slaughter and
free-range eggs and personal choice are
the solution and that veganism is crazy
an extreme so I don't know man maybe
that's just you know two different two
different foundations two different
organizations or two different sides of
your life but there's no doubt that
outreach there's no doubt that
cooperating with people who disagree
with you fundamentally is demoralizing
and emotionally exhausting and difficult
but you know both sides learn from it I
think I mean the guys I met the Cree in
a jib way guys I talked to who hunt
moose and hunt beaver and care about
traditional um care about the traditions
of their people I remember one of them
was an enthusiast about the traditional
ritual dancing you know the religious
dancing you know the each of them worked
very different characters I don't think
those guys had ever met a vegan before
I'm sure of it now that I remember
I don't think any of them had met
someone who was a former scholar of
Buddhism or who had lived in Cambodia
for them meeting me gave them a lot to
think about give them a very different
perspective on life and gave them a very
different set of questions and for me
meeting them it was really interesting
to meet people you know who care about
those issues from such a different
perspective it was interesting for me to
meet people who considered hunting a
wild moose moral and good but who by the
same token looked at the reality of
factory farming and milk production and
you know animals living in captivity
their whole lives and who regarded that
as evil so um and conversely it is true
that if I live my life within an echo
chamber within a hot house within a very
closed circle of people who only agree
with me on those fundamental issues
whether they're left wing or not then I
don't know maybe through those
interactions we would be learning
nothing at all